many drivers are under the impression
that if the sign says that this is a
maximum speed limit that you can drive
with that speed under all conditions and
it's just the opposite that's the
fastest or that's the maximum speed that
you can travel under ideal driving
conditions so when you have adverse
weather tell yourself if it has it were
suddenly to appear in the roadway around
this next curve or just ahead of this
vehicle that's in front of me or if that
vehicle in front of me were to suddenly
stop would I be able to safely slow down
and stop without getting that hazard the
rain gets no respect it's sort of like
the Rodney Dangerfield of the weather
conditions you know if it's snowing and
I see out we say hey it's snowing it's
AI seeds I better be careful so we have
a visual cue that that this could be
dangerous for us but when it's raining
it's just raining and drivers don't
appreciate the fact that their envelope
attraction the control that they have is
going to be greatly diminished because
of that rain when it's raining not only
can you not see now the road is slippery
and people are driving like it's a
beautiful sunny hot day it's not you've
got to take so many things into into
consideration you've got to keep that
distance you've got to slow down and you
can't make sudden moves with the car
because you're going to spin out of
control
if you take a look at any intersection
it's where you're going to have a lot of
oil deposits on the road and when it
starts to rain the water is heavier than
the oil so the oil is going to float up
to the top and a driver now coming into
that same intersection when it just
begins to rain trying to stop as they
may be accustomed to at the last moment
slamming the brakes on now it's this
little layer of oil water mixture and
they're going to slide and possibly
crash into the car in front because they
don't have the good habit of stopping
far enough back so they're victimized by
their bad habit if you're driving in
adverse conditions whether it's snow or
rain and you're approaching a curve you
want to start braking before you get to
the curve and try to negotiate the curve
without using your brakes as much
possible we're using them very lightly
so you want to break in a straight line
as much as possible and as weather
conditions change it's raining all day
the temperature has dropped down to 30
degrees now we have some freezing water
we have some loose water on top of
freezing water and a person is going to
go into that curve it's like playing
Russian roulette
if you don't reduce your speed when the
roads are wet icy or snowy speed is your
enemy reducing your speed giving you
more time to react to have it and that
is a secret to safe driving avoid skids
you get into a skid either a broadside
or a lock wheel skid that's an enemy
because you've lost control of your car
if you do find yourself in a skid best
thing you can do is get off of the
brakes even though you might be thinking
to yourself I won't have enough space to
stop if you keep skidding you definitely
won't have enough space to stop it'll
take you much further distance or bring
your vehicle to a stop fit sliding then
if your wheels are actually turning the
major thing that you have to do is
concentrate on your steering because
that's that's what's going to give you
the best chance to get out of the
situation so we always concentrate on
trying to get the front of the car to go
where we wanted it the goal in the first
place
steer the front of the car where you
want to get the goal before it started
to skid and if you're going into a curve
or up over Hillcrest you don't know
what's on the other side so there's two
things you have to do and it has to take
place automatically reduce your speed
and give yourself to curiosity to ask
what's on the other side rather than
assume it's going to be okay and if
we're asking ourselves the right
question we're going to see the
information a lot sooner when something
occurs in front of you you want to have
some other option available besides
slamming on the brakes so once a person
identifies a potential hazard there's
basically four options they have to
avoid a collision one would be the
brakes another one would be steering
either to the left or to the right and
then a fourth option would be to speed
up
so they need to start thinking about
well what can I do
beside slamming on the brakes a lot of
times steering out of the way
steering up on the shoulder of the road
maybe hitting a paddle marker or a
guardrail rather than rear-ending
another car I know the options that are
available if we would think about ahead
of time